---
layout: post
title: "On TDD"
categories: TDD
---

Yesterday I tried to do the [bownling
kata](http://butunclebob.com/files/downloads/Bowling%20Game%20Kata.ppt)
by [@unclebobmartin](https://twitter.com/unclebobmartin). After
reading the intro, it must be clear to everyone that the scoring rules
of bowling were not designed by a programmer.

## Where I failed
As you can see from the presentation, Uncle Bob starts out with some
design, which he does before doing anything. So apparently, he draws
up this (big) design before he starts coding. I didn't quite do
that. I started TTD'ing sort of right away.

Because that's how I solve
problems, I start playing with ideas to see if they work.

## Where I feel TDD fail in this scenario
In about slide 11 Uncle Bob starts to code. Note that from the
preceiding slides, he has already identified that he needs

* A game consisting of a series of
* Frames, which contains one or two
* Rolls
* And some serious magic code for the last frame

But still, instead of implementing these concepts, he starts out with
the baby steps that TDD requires, starting out with verifying that we
have a Game class.

Then he spends the next twenty something slides implementing baby
steps while still not introducing the concept of Rolls.

And so he goes on.

## And another gripe
During the course of this kata he introduces several private methods
to his Game class, which, being private, are not tested explicitly,
only implicitly through <code>roll</code> and <code>score</code>. I am
aware of these just being implementation details, but when I did this
implementation myself, there were quite a few of my private
helper-methods I would have liked to unit-test to ensure that they
were not the source of my failing implementation. They often were.

## The proof of the pudding
This problem is obviously functional. Given a set of inputs (rolls)
you get a known score. Same sequence of rolls, same score. Every time.

But yet I fail to see one test actually verifying a known game with a
known score.

In [this](http://www.bowlingindex.com/instruction/scoring.htm) you'll
find examples of games with the correct scores.

So I guess, if I were to implement this kata, I'd start up with
something like:

{% highlight Java %}
@Test
public void testRollSimpleGame() {
   //  9-0   3-5   6-1   3-6   8-1   5-3   2-5   8-0   7-1    8-1
   int [] rolls = {9, 0, 3, 5, 6, 1, 3, 6, 8, 1, 5, 3, 2, 5, 8, 0, 7,
   1, 8, 1};
   for (int i = 0; i< 0; i++) {
       g.roll(rolls[i]);
   }
   assertEquals(82, g.score());
}
{% endhighlight %}

And to stop me from mucking around creating an implementation which
returns 82 for any input, I'd implement this one pretty quickly as well.

{% highlight Java %}
@Test
public void testRollSimpleGame() {
    // X    3/    6-1    X     X     X    2/    9-0    7/    XXX
   int [] rolls = {10, 3, 7, 6, 1, 10, 10, 10, 2, 8, 9, 0, 7, 3, 10, 10, 10};
   for (int i = 0; i< 0; i++) {
       g.roll(rolls[i]);
   }
   assertEquals(193, g.score());
}
{% endhighlight %}

This last test actually highlights a problem, when you roll a strike,
you do not roll your second roll for the frame, which means that your
game gets less than 20 rolls.

As a bonus, you see that you easily can refactor the tests into
something like:

{% highlight Java %}

public void assertCorrectScore(int [] rolls, int score) {
   for (int i = 0; i< 0; i++) {
       g.roll(rolls[i]);
   }
   assertEquals(score, g.score());
}
{% endhighlight %}

As for Uncle Bobs implementation, I fail to see any such tests appart
from the gutter-game and perfect-game, both of which I admit are
important tests, though the former is more important with my bowling
skills. 

# My main point
Is still that to me it seems just useless to implement a lot of
small, useless tests, since they disturb my problem-solving process,
and they seem to be of little value when the job is done.

I'd personally much rather have a couple of real-world tests which
ensures that the function is correct, and use those as a guard when I
refactor my code. In the end, that's why I need tests, to ensure that
I have implemented the requirements, not to help me on my way to
solving the problem.

# A sortof untested version in Clojure
Oh, and then the shameless plug for Clojure. I did end up implementing
a scoringthingy in Clojure, which can be found
[here](https://github.com/slipset/bowling)

The nice thing about doing this in Clojure, is that I could play with
my data-model without having to resort to figuring out how to name
classes and such.

Of course, I should have implemented the tests above, which I might
just end up doing, but not today.

The test-driven java implementation? It was abandoned.










